If you are told to self-iso­late, you will need to stay at home and avoid con­tact with oth­ers for 14 days. Try not to stay in the same room with oth­ers at the same time, the U.K.’s Na­tional Health Ser­vice rec­om­mends. Stay in a well-ven­ti­lated room with a win­dow that can be opened. Don’t share tow­els, uten­sils or dishes with oth­ers, and wash them thor­oughly af­ter use. Clean bath­rooms and sur­faces reg­u­larly. Wash your hands be­fore and af­ter con­tact with pets.

There aren’t any drugs or vac­cines ap­proved specif­i­cally for the new virus. But more than three dozen are in de­vel­op­ment or be­ing stud­ied. The first hu­man test­ing of Mod­erna Inc.’s ex­per­i­men­tal vac­cine against the virus has be­gun at the Kaiser Per­ma­nente Wash­ing­ton Health Re­search In­sti­tute in Seat­tle. While this first part is start­ing early, the es­ti­mate still is that test­ing of the vac­cine will take a year to 18 months to com­plete. A few other vac­cine mak­ers are de­vel­op­ing prod­ucts tar­get­ing the virus.

Two clin­i­cal tri­als in China and one in the U.S. are eval­u­at­ing remde­sivir, an an­tivi­ral drug from Gilead Sci­ences Inc. that was also tested for Ebola. A malaria drug, hy­drox­y­chloro­quine, has gained at­ten­tion as a pos­si­ble treat­ment, but there is no sci­en­tific ev­i­dence that it works, ex­perts say.

Adults of all ages have been in­fected, but the risk of se­vere dis­ease and death is high­est for older peo­ple and those with other health con­di­tions such as heart dis­ease, chronic lung dis­ease, can­cer and di­a­betes. Most of the 1,023 peo­ple whose deaths were in­cluded in a study by the Chi­nese Cen­ter for Dis­ease Con­trol and Pre­ven­tion were age 60 or older, and/or had other ill­nesses. Many pa­tients who have died were ad­mit­ted to hos­pi­tals when their ill­ness was ad­vanced. One large study in China found a mor­tal­ity rate of 14.8% in peo­ple ages 80 and older, and 8% in peo­ple ages 70 to 79, com­pared with a 2.3% mor­tal­ity rate over­all in the pop­u­la­tion stud­ied.

